[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ROBERT PHOENIX: Hi,
this is Robert Phoenix.
And welcome back to
The Eleventh House.
Today we're going
to get into aspects.
So we're going to be looking
at the five major aspects
and how they impact
the astrological chart
and the individual.
We're going to look at them in
terms of both the natal chart
and also transits as well.
Before I jump into
aspects, I just
want to talk a little
bit about transits
because I think it's an aspect
and a concept of astrology
that a lot of people don't
really understand and may not
really be able to
integrate into their charts
and into their lives in
ways that make sense.
And we get the word transit
from transitory or transitional.
And it means that the
planets are actually
moving through space.
They're moving through space
in terms of their relationship
to one another, but
they're also moving
through space in
terms of relationship
to the planets in
our chart as well.
And those transits can manifest
as trines, and sextiles,
and oppositions,
and conjunctions,
all aspects that we're going
to look at as we go deeper
into today's episodes--
or today's episode.
But what I wanted to share with
you about aspects is that--
or transits, rather,
is that transits
aren't necessarily transitory.
And this is my, and perhaps some
other astrologers' philosophy
on transits.
In that, when they
happen, and they
occur over a period
of time, that there's
an opportunity for
us to integrate
those transits into our lives.
So perhaps it will
be taking place
over a period of
days or weeks, which
might be the case with a
moon transit or a Mercury
transit, or a Venus
transit, I mean,
even a Mars transit to some
extent, Jupiter as well.
But we get out to Saturn and
Uranus, and Neptune, and Pluto,
these transits take much longer.
So they tend to have longer
term impacts on our lives,
both in terms of the
time and the schedule
and the longevity that
they have with the chart
as part of the transit,
but also in terms
of just the spiritual and
the astrological impact
that they themselves
have with us.
So the idea with a transit
is to bring the transit home,
to make it your
own, to integrate it
into your overall
being and make it
kind of a holistic
enterprise and activity.
And how you do that,
in a lot of ways,
is dependent upon your character
type or your astrological type.
But I think one of the
more constructive ways
of making an aspect real or
really owning it, and bringing
it home, is to make it
manifest, to bring it
into the real world.
And you can do that with
art, and creativity,
and making something physical,
a physical kind of manifestation
of whatever it is that
you're going through.
So if you're going
through a period
where perhaps Neptune is
trining Mercury in your life,
maybe you want to
write some poetry.
Maybe you want to
write a fictional novel
during that time.
Maybe you want to write a play.
Maybe you want to get
into freestyle rap.
Whatever that thing
is, make it happen,
and make a record of it.
Why?
Because it's a n-- it's
a n-- mnemonic device.
I always have a hard time
pronouncing that word.
It's a mnemonic
device, which allows
you to remember what
you've gone through,
but it also gives
you this piece that's
a record of what
you've experienced.
So it operates on
two different levels.
That's one way you can
bring an aspect home.
Another way is to be
really conscious of it
and be really conscious
of the energy that's
flowing in your life.
And it's easier to
do this when you're
engaging with a harmonious
aspect like a sextile,
or a trine, and even
at times conjunctions,
although conjunctions
can be tricky as well.
But you can be really conscious
and aware that the energy is
moving through your life.
I'll give an example for me,
what happened during the time
when Neptune was trining
Mercury, and also
Venus in my life.
That was a time when
Neptune was in Aquarius,
it was transiting
my third house,
and it was trining Mercury and
also Venus in my 11th house.
And during that cycle
and during that phase
I was doing a lot
of tarot reading.
of psychic work.
And I was also feeling really
compassionate towards people.
I wanted to help people.
And I wanted this-- the tarot
and some of the psychic work
to be used as a
tool to help people.
So I was really aware of
that aspect taking place.
And I pushed it
during that time.
And I integrated it, obviously,
because I'm still doing it.
And I'm standing in
front of a camera right
now sharing the
experience with you
and taking it to a different
level with astrology.
So that's one way
that you can do--
you can become aware of
the aspect and the transit
and really bring it home.
Now, sometimes transits
can be difficult,
especially when you're
dealing with Pluto transits,
or you're dealing with Neptune
transits, certain Uranus
transits, and quite often
even with Saturn transits.
And when we get into
the heavy transits,
when we get into the
transpersonal planets
and they're squaring
or opposing or they're
conjuncting certain
aspects in our chart,
sometimes we just can't hold on.
We have to let go.
We have to surrender because
there's a greater plan,
there's a greater evolution,
there's a greater blueprint
that wants to come through in
your life as a result of this.
So I'm feeling pretty
confessional today.
So I'll share with you
another example in my life
when this happened.
And it was right around 2007.
And during that time, Saturn was
moving through my ninth house.
And I have Pluto
conjuncting my mid heaven.
And at that time Saturn
conjuncted my Pluto.
And right at that time,
almost simultaneously,
I lost my corporate gig
because I was redundant,
I got a divorce,
and my father died.
This was Saturn
coming over my Pluto.
It's a major cycle.
It's a 30 year cycle, about
a 28 to 30 year cycle.
And it came across my Pluto
and it changed my life
in a really profound way.
And so I had this intense
kind of wave of loss.
But on the other
side of that, Saturn
came into my tenth
house, and I started
to work on my astrological blog,
and it became fairly popular,
and I started my radio show,
and eventually it let me here
to the studios of Gaiam
TV, where I'm doing this.
So I had to let go of something.
I had to push off from the shore
when Saturn crossed my Pluto.
But when I did, something
else was there to await me.
And that's quite
often the case when
we go through very
intense transits.
So my advice to you,
if you're struggling
with a Pluto square
or a Pluto opposition,
or there's something happening
with Saturn in your chart,
to try to lighten your load,
let go of some personal baggage.
Try to give up something that's
holding you down or keeping you
back.
It could be a
pattern, or a habit,
or an addiction, something
that can keep you
from really being able
to gracefully let go,
and dissolve, and move with
the energy in your life.
So those are some ideas,
and some understanding,
and some experiences that
I've had with transits,
and it might be helpful for you.
All right, so let's get
into the aspects themselves.
And I tend to work with
the five major aspects.
There are minor aspects
like semisextiles,
and quinconxes, and
inconjunctions, quintiles,
and bi-quintiles.
I tend to pay attention to
quintiles and bi-quintiles
because I think
they're interesting.
But these are the
five major aspects.
And if you really
understand them,
and you can understand
them within the dynamics
of the dance of the
chart, you really
don't need anything else,
especially if you're
trying to understand
your own chart.
Get a good handle on
these five aspects.
Or if you're reading
for somebody else,
try to get a good handle on
them and really ground them,
and go as deep as
you can, so that when
you start to get into the,
what I would call the deeper
flow of the reading, things
become much more intuitive.
And you can begin to
make some sort of leaps
and some sort of
interesting connections
as a result of really
understanding these aspects.
Excuse me.
So, let's get into them.
Let's start off
with the sextile.
It's a 60 degree aspect.
Here we have the
sun and the moon.
And in terms of
sextile and trines,
they tend to be what we
call benefic, or positive,
or flowing, or easy aspects.
They allow us to tap into the
energy between two planets
in a fairly graceful
and non challenging way.
And the sextiles generally
tend to be quicker
in some ways than the
trines because they're
shorter in terms of
angle and degree.
They happen quicker.
But also with
sextiles, you'll find
that there is a
component to them that
are-- it's like having the
opportunity to experience
a new technique, or a new skill,
or new gift inside the matrix.
But most the time
with a sextile,
you're dealing
with elements that
are copacetic with one another.
So for instance, in this chart
let's say the sun is in Taurus,
maybe the moon here is over
here in the sign of Cancer.
So we have earth and
water playing together.
Or perhaps the sun
is in Aries and then
the moon can be in Gemini
so we have fire and air.
So it's usually working with
two compatible elements,
but generally speaking,
in different elements.
Right, they're compatible,
but they're are different.
So, the trine, on
the other hand,
generally is two elements
within the same trine.
Sometimes-- or in
the same element.
For instance, the
sun could be in Libra
and the moon could be
over here in Aquarius.
So it would be two air
signs at a 120 degree angle.
Every now and then,
you can get out of sign
sextiles-- I'm sorry,
out of element sextiles,
but it's pretty rare.
So this-- or out
of element trines,
but they're both pretty rare.
But with the sextile,
though, what the sextile
allows you to do,
it allows you to tap
into a new way of working with
energy in a way that's flowing.
It allows you to combine two
different elements, usually
fire and air or earth and
water together, combine them,
and come up with
interesting solutions.
Sextiles allow the individual
to learn and grow on the fly.
Now, you can have
them also in a chart,
you can have planets
sextiling your chart.
You can have trines
Doesn't have to be
based on transits.
But generally speaking, the
trine is an energy and an angle
that you have worked with
at some point in time
prior to this lifetime.
At least that's my
understanding of it.
Or that's my experience with it.
And as a result, you
are born with a trine.
It's like a tried and true
strategy, and a friend
that you can tap into
again, and again, and again.
The sextile is
something that you're
learning about and growing with.
Now, what happens is, at times,
that these energies are so easy
and so flowing that you
may not be able to-- you
may take them for granted.
And as a result, there's
an old axiom which
is if you don't use
it, you lose it.
And that can be said
of both of these.
So you don't want to
take these energies
for granted in your chart
or when they're taking place
in terms of their transits.
You need to be able to tap
into them, work with them,
be conscious of
them, and make sure
that you are expressing
them and circulating
the energy through your
chart and through your life.
Let's move over to the squares.
Squares are really interesting.
They're 90 degree angles.
And squares are often
considered difficult.
If somebody says, oh man, I've
got Uranus squaring my Neptune
right now, they're
basically saying
that they're going
through a hard time,
that the energy
is happening here
at kind of a-- it's not as easy.
It doesn't flow
like the sextile.
It doesn't flow like the trine.
It's harder.
It's coming here
almost at a triangle.
In fact, if you were
to build this out,
you could build a
t-square out of this.
But so, it's a 90 degree angle.
And how I see squares,
what I'd liken a square to
is I liken it to body building.
And if you were to
take a dumbbell,
and hold the dumbbell up, and
bring it to a 90 degree angle
here with your arm,
which would basically
be a mirror of the
square, what you would do
is you would build
up your bicep.
You would build up
muscle because you
would have resistance.
And squares bring you
resistance in your life.
And they're there to
help you get stronger.
They're not a curse.
They're not something
that is hard,
that is some sort of karmic
debt that you have to go through
and you have to pay.
These squares are taking place
because as individuals, we
need to grow.
And sometimes we have to
have conditions in our lives
that challenge us.
We have to break
down structures,
just like we break down
muscle, and then we
have to build it back up.
That's part of the square.
And right now,
there are people who
have Saturn in
Capricorn who are going
through the Uranus
squared to it.
And it's a little bit
challenging because there's
kind of an element of
restlessness to that.
But again, if we don't have
the squares in our lives,
we're not going to grow.
We know-- we can-- and
I've seen this in charts.
I've seen charts
where people have
very little squares
in their charts.
And you would think, oh wow,
what a great incarnation.
You must have done really
well in a past life
because you don't have the labor
of going through these squares.
But when you look at their
charts and you talk to them,
sometimes they can really be
lost because they don't have
the resistance, they
don't have the pressure
of the air coming
against the wing.
Because if we don't have
that, we can't really grow,
we can't really fly.
So that's a square.
It's a 90 degree angle.
And here we have
the conjunction.
Now, conjunctions are
interesting because they
can be both positive,
theoretically, and negative.
And conjunctions are
usually within five degrees.
That's the sweet spot
of the conjunction.
Now, there are
people that will read
a conjunction for 10 degrees.
There are other
people that will read
a conjunction for
10 plus degrees.
Now, I think that when
a planet is in one sign
and it has the
potential of contacting
another plan in
the same sign it is
going to have an impact whether
it's 30 degrees, 29 degrees, 28
degrees, 15 degrees, 10 degrees.
It is going to have
some kind of impact
in terms of the conjunction.
It can be super wide, but the
closer it gets, obviously,
the more impact
it's going to have.
Now, there are times when we
can have a sun Mars conjunction.
Now, here it's moon sun.
They use the moon
for all of these.
We could have a sun
Mars conjunction.
And if that sun
Mars conjunction is
within five degrees, five--
between five to 10 degrees--
that's a really
dynamic conjunction.
You're basically marrying the
planet of will and expression
with the sun.
It's really energetic, it's
really alive and invigorating.
And that individual
has a lot a life
force that they can tap into.
But let's just
say that that Mars
gets within four degrees,
three degrees, two degrees.
Now we have the sun and
Mars coming together
in a really tight conjunction.
And what was an
abundance of energy
before becomes almost
too much energy,
and somebody who can fly
off the handle, somebody
who has no self control, has no
ability to channel their will.
They're all energy.
They're all yang.
They're all fire.
And that's when the conjunction
becomes challenging.
Now, I've seen this,
also, with Mercury
in conjunction with the sun.
When you get past four
degrees with Mercury,
sometimes the individual
thinks too quickly, they
don't check their work, they
don't check their mistakes.
There can also be learning
and speech disabilities
or difficulties with Mercury
conjunct the sun too close.
So you get too close to a
planet and the conjunction
becomes intense.
And there can be a
crisis in the individual.
And if it backs off a little
bit and is further out,
it can actually be a
complement to that planet
that's conjuncting.
So it all depends on how
close that planet is.
Now, in terms of
transits, that could
be a really interesting time.
I talked about the conjunction
between Saturn and the Pluto
in my own chart.
There could be an
experience that you're
having your own life with a
conjunction that's taking place
right now and you want
to pay attention to it.
Especially if it's Saturn,
because when Saturn
comes around and conjuncts
any planet in your chart,
it is resetting your
relationship to that planet.
So Saturn conjuncts
Venus, it's having
a reset with all
your relationships.
Because Saturn won't be coming
through and touching that Venus
again for another 28 years.
OK.
So pay attention to
your conjunctions.
They're important, both natally
and in terms of transits.
That brings us to the
final aspect of the five
large aspects, or the
five major aspects.
That's the opposition.
The opposition is an 80
degree-- 180 degree angle.
It's not really an angle, it's
just an 180 degree opposition
between one planet
and the other.
Here it's the moon and Saturn.
And oppositions are
a little bit tricky
because there is kind an off
on energy with oppositions.
There's a pulsation that
takes place within the chart.
A person can run hot and
cold with oppositions.
Sometimes they're over here on
this side of the opposition.
Sometimes they're on the
other side of the opposition.
It can indicate that they
have a difficulty bringing
different parts of
their lives together.
For instance, let's
say somebody has
the sun up in the
10th house over here,
and then down here in the fourth
house they may have Saturn.
So they'd have a
Saturn sun opposition.
So they may have a really
strong burden in the home,
and a lot of
responsibility in the home.
And they really need to
be up in the 10th house.
And they really need to be
focusing on their career
and manifesting who
they are in the world,
but Saturn always
brings them back
to the challenge,
and the struggle,
and the gravity that
keeps them at home.
And that is the key
to the opposition.
You got to figure out
how to bring these two
disparate worlds, or these
two disparate poles together.
Now, I have a theory
about oppositions
and it's kind of like this.
We see the opposition
here in 2D, right?
It's two dimensional.
So we just see it as some
kind of disparity or polarity
that somehow we have
to make a bridge to.
But what would happen if
we took the opposition
and we brought it out into 3D?
What would happen
if instead of it
being a line between two poles,
what if we made it a loop?
And if it became a
loop, wouldn't it
be easier to move back and
forth between those two poles?
So I think that the
key to the opposition
is to shift our own
personal relationship
to the geometry
of the opposition.
If we can see it as a
loop, and we can somehow
make the connection between the
two and keep the energy moving,
the opposition isn't
an opposition at all.
It's more like an
orbit, and the energy
continues to flow
back and forth,
and back and forth, and
around, and around, and around.
Now, there's another
strategy, or theory,
around oppositions, in
that if you become really
good at either pole
of the opposition,
like if you somehow manage
your responsibilities down
in the fourth house
and then managed
to do what you need to
do in the tenth house,
and you do it time,
and time, and time
again, essentially
what you do is
you begin to
shorten the distance
between the opposition.
And you begin to
meet in the middle.
And you find that sweet spot
in the center between those two
disparate poles.
So there are a couple
of different ways
of working with oppositions
in the natal chart.
In terms of
transits, oppositions
can be a little-- they can be a
little tricky because you feel
like you're being pulled
in opposite directions.
But just remember
they're transits.
They don't last forever.
And you will get through
even the most stiff and dire
of aspects, including
the opposition.
OK, so what I want
to do now is I
want to just run a couple
charts by you, so we
can see some of this in action.
This happens to be
Charles Manson's chart.
I just thought it was
kind of interesting.
So we have-- I
wanted to show you
because there are
some things about it
that we can look at and get
some idea and understanding as
to what we're
talking about here.
One of the things
that we can see
is that there is a conjunction,
very tight conjunction,
between the sun in Scorpio
and Venus in Scorpio.
In fact, when we look
at Manson's chart,
he has the sun in Scorpio,
he has Mercury in Scorpio,
he has Venus in Scorpio, and
he also has Jupiter in Scorpio.
So he has a stellium, he has
four planets in Scorpio, which
makes him a really underworld,
Plutonian kind of character,
right?
Here he has Taurus
on the ascendant,
and Uranus also there on
the ascendant -- well,
just coming out
of the 12th house.
But it's this conjunction
between the sun and Venus
in the seventh house which
gives Manson a kind of Svengali,
messianic power over
people in relationship.
That's what the sun Venus
conjunction in Scorpio
here does.
It is possessive.
It can be obsessive.
And it wields a great deal
of mesmerism and power,
especially because he also has
Jupiter Mercury again conjunct
in the sign of Scorpio
not very far behind.
And what we know
about Scorpio is
they can be very persuasive,
very magnetic, and very,
very energetic and dynamic.
So he has all this
in this chart,
he's got all this
Scorpio in this chart
but it's squaring Saturn up here
in the 11th house, in Aquarius.
Now, I find his Saturn in
Aquarius in the 11th house
to be pretty interesting.
Because if you go
back and you listen
to what Charles Manson actually
said to people like Bobby
Beausoleil and all the
other-- what was her name?
Susan Krenwinkel,
the people that
were that were part
of the Manson family.
What he was basically
telling them
was that they needed to let
go of their conditioning.
They needed to let go
of their programming.
They needed to
unlearn everything
that society taught them
in order to be free.
Now, if it wasn't
Charles Manson,
I mean, you could be listening
to somebody on Oprah Winfrey's
couch basically sharing the
same sentiments with you,
which is casting off all the
social conditioning that we've
learned so that we can
be really authentic,
and we can be really
sovereign, and free
and liberated individuals.
This is what he was sharing
with the Manson family.
And it doesn't seem
really that far
fetched in terms
of other ideologies
that are espoused
in the new age.
I mean, it's
certainly a strategy.
Well, that was
Manson's strategy.
And we can see that here,
Saturn in Aquarius up here
in the 11th house.
So he was trying to implement
a Saturnian Aquarian
kind of strategy at that time.
But it was squaring
with Pluto, it
was squaring with the sun and
Venus and Jupiter and Mercury.
So he was using that
Scorpionic energy
in a way that was
not consistent enough
flowing with that Saturn.
He was forcing the
issue, shall we say it?
issue just a little bit.
But that's an indication here
of how the square would work,
and certainly with how
the conjunctions would
work as well.
We have a Venus, I'm sorry, a
Mercury and Uranus opposition,
which basically indicates
that he's rebellious.
That's what that
opposition means.
He would also be capable
of great commitments
and on some level, great
devotion, with that Scorpio,
but on the other hand, with
Uranus close to the ascendant,
he would also be quite radical,
upsetting, destabilizing,
shocking.
So this would be an individual
that would, in my estimation,
would have, at some point
in time in his life,
been traumatized.
Because what we see here is
we see a significant split
between Uranus and Mercury.
And that there's an
ideological split,
and there's an
inability to bring
this Scorpionic depth, and
intensity, and commitment
into a place where Uranus
isn't constantly fracturing
the ability to communicate,
and the ability to ground,
and the ability to bond and
form longstanding relationships.
There's always something here
in the institutional space
to the 12th house--
of course Manson
spent a lot of his
early years in prison--
that break this up
and fragment it.
What else do we have here?
There is the Mars
Neptune conjunction.
Very, very tight.
Mars in Virgo at 14 degrees,
Neptune exact at 14 degrees.
When we see the Mars
Neptune conjunction,
there can be a really
interesting kind
of emanation of
magic, mysticism.
There can be the use of
drugs, mind altering drugs,
with Mars Neptune conjunction.
It's in the fifth house, so
there's creativity involved.
There's also sex,
with the fifth house,
with Mars Neptune conjunction.
And trining the sun,
there's a lot of dynamism,
and there's a lot of inherent
power with this trine.
Manson was also a musician.
We can see that get played
out a little bit here
in the fifth house.
So there are some really
strong aspects to the chart,
but ultimately at
the end of the day,
the opposition between
Uranus and Mercury
made it almost impossible
for him to be a whole person.
The mind, and the ability to
communicate deeply held beliefs
grounded in this kind
of Scorpionic underworld
were fractured all the time
and split off with this Uranus
in the first house, which is
radical, upsetting, disturbing,
and ultimately institutional.
And then, of course,
we see the squares
with Jupiter and the sun, and
squaring off against Saturn
up there in the 11th house.
And then we also have
moon up here, true node.
The moon, the true
node conjuncts.
So his chart is marked by very
tight conjunctions, the Jupiter
Venus conjunction, the Venus sun
conjunction, the Mars Neptune
conjunction, the moon
true node conjunction.
Whenever we see a chart
with conjunctions like that,
especially that tight,
there's a lot power
that's inherent in the chart.
But there can also
be a lot of confusion
and an inability to separate
those aspects and to use them
and to actualize them in a way
that is measured and grounded.
Here the aspects
themselves almost
take control of Manson
in the chart itself.
OK, let me do one more chart.
This is the chart for today.
I pulled this up.
This is from
earlier today, 7:34.
This is kind of a horary chart.
And it's from Verdon, France.
This is just-- that's
where I was born.
But this is-- so they use
that as the birthplace,
or the chart of origination,
place of origination.
And I just pulled
it up for today.
So this is what's
happening today.
We see all these squares
going on with Pluto.
And here's the sun at 17 degrees
Capricorn, Mercury and Venus
again.
All these conjunctions
in Capricorn
taking place right now.
So there's a lot of
institutional kind
of thinking, a lot of
institutional decision making.
If you are in the
workplace, you might
be seeing transformations taking
place inside of your workplace.
Perhaps part of your
business is being peeled off,
another part of your
business is coming together.
All this is happening
under the energy
of this very tight
conjunction with Capricorn
squaring off against the energy
of Uranus and the moon today.
In Aries there's restlessness.
People are feeling anxious.
There's a sense of wanting to
take charge and take control,
but here with all of
this Capricornian energy,
the old guard, the
institutional thinking
is really kind of holding
down the weight of the chart.
Here's where all the gravitas
is, in the sixth house.
Over here we've got
Jupiter in Cancer,
which is part of this
major cardinal square
that we've got
going on right now.
Jupiter at 15, Mars at 14,
the sun at 17, Pluto at 11.
So these are not
easy times when we're
dealing with all these
cardinal planets.
And this is going to
go on for a-- really up
until about May,
June, of 2014 we're
going to be dealing with
these cardinal energies
because Jupiter is
going to be in Cancer.
Mars is still going
to be in Libra,
and of course Pluto's
not going away,
and Uranus isn't going away.
They're going to be in Aries.
So this configuration,
the cardinal square,
is going to be part of
the geometry of 2014.
And squares, as I mentioned
before, allow us to grow,
and they allow us
to get stronger.
But when we have
a cardinal square,
it's almost like your crisis.
It can be in some ways akin to
a healing crisis where there
are a number of things
happen in the body
at the same time, where if you
attempt to address one thing,
there are two or three
other things that
are taking place that also
need to be dealt with.
Now, the saving grace for today
is the Jupiter trine to Saturn.
This is going to
be on for a while,
again, because
Saturn's in Scorpio.
So we have the opportunity
to somehow integrate
this on a psychic level,
but it takes time.
It takes time away
from the event horizon.
And what we're going
through in order
to integrate some of
this stuff, time alone,
generally spent in
a hot tub or a bath,
hopefully, so that you
can, in your own life
integrate this intense-- This
is the energy that started off
for 2014, by the way.
This is what we're dealing
with at the start of the year.
So in some ways this is
like the template for 2014.
And the strategy here
is emotional renewal,
time spent away, and finding
some kind of healing modality
that you can sink yourself
into and then get back
into the fray.
And then finally we have
some really nice sextiles.
Here's the sextile in action
with Saturn and Scorpio
sextiling off into this
Capricorn energy over here.
So there's actually some
growth energy as well.
So if you're going through
change in the workplace,
if there's some organizational
dynamics that are taking place,
know it can be resolved.
And the way that you resolve it,
right, is you get into Saturn.
And the Saturn is what is
best for everybody, right?
Saturn is the mediator between
the transpersonal planets
and the personal planets.
And Saturn in Scorpio is saying,
let's get down to fundamentals.
Let's get down to how
can we all move together
in a way that empowers everyone?
And if we can find
that solution,
if we can find that
sweet spot, then you
can tap into that
sextile and say, OK, this
is how it's going to go.
We're all going to jump on board
and commit to Saturn so that we
can improve ourselves both
financially, organizationally,
and regenerate because Scorpio
is a regenerative sign.
So there's the potential for
regeneration in this chart
as well.
OK, well, there we go.
There's the chart of the day
and Charlie Manson's chart
with all those really
tight conjunctions.
And you've hopefully
learned a little bit
about aspects and transits.
And we'll continue to explore
the dynamics of astrology
in The Eleventh House, as well
a step out every now and then
and explore the meta narrative
and some of the other stuff
that we do here.
But until then, take
care of yourself.
I'm Robert Phoenix.
I will see you next time
on The Eleventh House.